ONC Certified: Net Health® WoundExpert 
 

 

 

 
 This Health IT Module is compliant with the ONC Certification Criteria for Health IT and has been certified by an ONC-ACB in accordance with the applicable certification criteria adopted by the Secretary of Health and Human Services. This certification does not represent an endorsement by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. 

 WoundExpert version 7.0  was certified on December 31, 2018, by Drummond Group and updated on December 29, 2022 to Cures Edition.
 Certificate Number:  15.04.04.2815.Woun.07.00.1.181231 
 Modules Tested:  170.315 (a)(1-5, 12, 14); (b)(1-3, 10-11); (c)(1-3); (d)(1-9, 11-13); (e)(1, 3); (g)(2-6 (h)(1) 
 Clinical Quality Measures tested:  22v13, 50v12, 68v7, 122v6, 138v6, 139v6, 156v6, 165v6 
 Additional software used:  NLM API, Secure Exchange Solutions SES Direct, First Databank, SureScripts e-Prescribing, Net Health Patient Portal, Surescripts ePrescribing, Identity Server, Swagger, Identity Server 4, Secure Exchange Solutions SES HISP, Darena Health 

 Electronic Health Information Export 
Single patient and patient population electronic health information can be exported in the form of an “export zip” file which contains files in a machine-readable format in accordance with §170.315(b)(10) – Electronic Health Information export of the ONC 2015 Edition Cures Update Certification Criteria. 

 The content and format of the data contained within the export zip file depending on number of patients selected and software functionality in use.

 The EHI Export zipped folder contains a folder for each patient that contains 
csv files of EHI data 
all image files from the patient record 
all custom scans on file 
EHIDataExtract_DataDictionary.xlsx 
ExportSummary.txt

 Costs and Criteria Specific Considerations 
170.315 (b)(3) – Base licensing of the WoundExpert EHR includes access to a third-party medications and allergies database via our partner, First Databank. Net Health contracts with First Databank in order to extend functionality such as e-prescribing and drug interactions to our WoundExpert clients. Alternative medication or allergy databases via the Wound Care application are not supported at this time. 

 Those ECs electing or required to electronically prescribe controlled substances (EPCS) will be required to pay a monthly recurring, per clinician fee for access to the DrFirst network. Net Health contracts with DrFirst in order to provide this functionality to our WoundExpert clinicians. Alternative EPCS solutions via the WoundExpert application are not supported at this time. 

 Base licensing of the WoundExpert EHR also includes access to MedlinePlus Connect, which is a free service of the National Library of Medicine (NLM), National Institutes of Health (NIH), and the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to link to patient-specific education materials. Alternative patient-specific education materials via the Wound Care application are not supported at this time. 

 170.315 (a)(14) – Net Health uses the NLM to provide its Eligible Clinicians (ECs) access to a list of implantable devices for documentation in WoundExpert. 

 170.315 (h)(1) – ECs will be required to pay an ongoing annual, per clinician, flat fee to exchange secure messages and medical record files via a Direct Account with our partner Secure Exchange Solutions (SES). This functionality allows users to send and receive Direct-based messages to/from other users of certified health IT systems. Direct messages may include clinical data, notes, and transitions of care and dischargesummary documents. Net Health’s contract with SES also offers our customers the ability to utilize an alternative Health Information Service Provider (HISP).The Promoting Interoperability Grid Report is updated on every Tuesday, Thursday, Friday and Sunday night, due to the volume of data; requests for more frequent delivery can be accommodated. The Promoting Interoperability Grid Report provides the numerator, denominator, resulting percentage, and list of patients meeting and not meeting the measure for all automated measures. It is run per clinician and also includes a text description of how the data is captured per measure. 

 The CQM Grid is updated nightly, due to the volume of data. The CQM grid provides the numerator, denominator, resulting percentage, and list of patients meeting and not meeting the measure for all measures. It is run per clinician. 

 170.315 (e)(1) – Net Health allows patients to grant access for WoundExpert data to third-party application (app) developers. The Net Health Patient Portal is used to grant access to the data, per patient, per app, including the ability to specify the type of data and to revoke access. Net Health makes its FHIR based Application Programming Interface (API) publicly available through partnership with Darena Health, which leveragesFHIR Server, connected to WoundExpert Patient and Visit FHIR API, to enable app developer workspaces. Enablement includes a one-time implementation fee and ongoing monthly per provider fee to cover costs of the solution. 

 Net Health allows patients to grant access for WoundExpert data to third-party application (app) developers in the Net Health Patient Portalthrough a SMART launch to the FHIR Server. 

 WoundExpert relies upon Net Health’s Patient Portal Version 1 to meet the View, Download and Transmit Measure (170.315.e.1).  Net Health’s Patient Portal is included with the Base Licensing of WoundExpert EHR. 

 WoundExpert is not developed using Accessibility-Centered Design (ACD). The Patient Portal is developed using ACD. 

 Net Health
 40 24th Street
3rd Floor
Pittsburgh, PA 15222
Contact:
info@nethealth.com
www.nethealth.com

 

 
 
 Learn about  WoundExpert Regulatory Compliance  and how we maintain industry standards.   

 View our Real World Testing Plans and Results  to see our commitment to ongoing validation and quality assurance. 

 Explore the WoundExpert FHIR API documentation  for technical integration details. 

 Read our Data and AI Governance Plan  to understand how Net Health manages data security and AI implementation.
